Funk was one of the thirteen women in the Mercury 13 program (consisting of only women). She was unable to go to space even though she passed all the training and physiological screening tests that astronauts in NASA did. She found out the operation was canceled through a telegram but does not explain the reason why. She just said, ‘I wasn’t going to sit back and pine over anything,’ showing more to her character, than the reason for the program’s end <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(96)"> seek to 1:36</a>. In fact, the program was never a part of NASA itself. It was a private project run by Dr. W. Randolph Lovelace II, who in 1959 suggested that woman should be sent into space instead of men due to lower body weight and oxygen requirements. However, the Air Force decided not to go with his suggestion. So, Dr. Lovelace began the Woman in Space Program at his private medical clinic in Albuquerque, NM. There he passed medical and physiological tests on accomplished female aviators [Ryan, Loeppky & Kilgore, 2009](https://www.physiology.org/doi/full/10.1152/advan.00034.2009).

This audio also describes some of the tests these women undertook. Although she only runs through them briefly saying, ‘I had needles stuck in every part of my body, tubes running up my bottom’ <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(51)"> seek to 0:51</a>. She also described her experience in the isolation tank, although mostly referring back to her achievements ‘you stayed 10 hours and 35 minutes, you did the best of the guys that we’ve had, and of the girls’ <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(76)"> seek to 1:16 </a>. This is a rather interesting phenomenon since oral historian I. Bertaux-Wiame, found that women tended to downplay their own activities when they were interviewed. It is alleviating to hear Funk talk proudly of her achievements. Although she went over the more painful procedures more quickly, adding ‘I went along with it, it didn’t bother me,’ suggesting that some procedures were tough, but she managed to endure them.

Funk's experience as a woman entering the space industry in America came at an interesting time. It was at the peak of the space race between the United States and the Soviet Union. In April 1961, the Soviet Union sent, Yuri Gagarin, the first man into space [Weber, 2013]( https://pdf.sciencedirectassets.com/271447/1-s2.0-S0094576513X00116/1-s2.0-S0094576512001531/main.pdf?x-amz-security-token=AgoJb3JpZ2luX2VjEGQaCXVzLWVhc3QtMSJHMEUCIQC%2BUFjHarefKUZ4Ult9F5MoU05EYJRHlxd28%2FDb9kOwSAIgHQMvT7ebeUqhiWyjrWHmJAzvXuP9w5t5n7f%2BiAmTSSwq2gMIHRACGgwwNTkwMDM1NDY4NjUiDMX47oRiyN3a7HGquyq3A57jpucmc7UiRigmrTyJNGQxtk%2FxkQDZLJ4lrLJgr8IxLjCj0iEr4BQvlwp4hYSpbwwf%2FT6A8lEGQVZYJ2Ka9pmLOFF3qLN80WFvl5UedGd1BpGSZJjV0Y9vpDttSLoNdJYCP0WBw%2BzciH7vXa8ULUSGYO4iqRt9C9HXOsfedBhB7bzhtMC63YR7r3w37zZQSvpr%2F7n82I9aemCjrxgMk1FITeGakO9hMRLIjGnXGof5org6QqqGZvt5YLQlBTnKfClTlIXpSK9iN1JGahC%2F0y2OxXSH5wAUihSBbyGrVv0JvkqGkBg%2BK%2Bur47%2Bax0%2F49IbRpIMZyfIXGNAyUD9%2B6ZX0HifHbaHUnvvWNHCXVVCwlDr2YsGeU0y6N4jHsf5vtZOFCf2%2BinM52OcngkUVtx0gFKcmsoCwrK%2BJuhkhr95FhGMSy2jFUEXRsvIHU7UglxP9lYPkDXvWL2Q4rS2gHxDFwe%2F8rujDm82IptV9Adxaxdq2kwS3umOMvrg2d%2FFe1JXCZNbbrrHRRW0k70OEv7Ft%2BRzkuRPr8q7l6fUs2whcyNLudVLNSdpU3djHqXNZrr3uNIomfZwwwJ%2Fv5AU6tAFLHhxJyWuVPvufzWF1wKNEGLsYUvN1wr%2BskIHsESCILtMLzEy7HKEA8UUNyS20mMrgsnS3Oy8T%2Bg2cusbM%2FSh30zYT8UJ781r8ghTmJQYyc%2FWlDgeODDKjg9KYF6O35kwlIzq75Dv4xAIS2u8xV2VkTGRcZzq7pR29Y4SgyWaoG3cmIOgRHkMMmNZ6OFYfYGjEMzSqqGr6f2zD3258tEF%2FPD9FaSoQyLHY1p1cuL8sr3o4qDU%3D&AWSAccessKeyId=ASIAQ3PHCVTYT6DYZGBC&Expires=1553718917&Signature=hoOIjeAu78B0SmLCLwaUMSeb5a4%3D&hash=388d6666b88404f070cebd65d4f785760460a6ec97eec441700e9e7f871fabf6&host=68042c943591013ac2b2430a89b270f6af2c76d8dfd086a07176afe7c76c2c61&pii=S0094576512001531&tid=spdf-232ae203-e6bd-451c-8d75-0e0f6c3aa73a&sid=56fb01be623c7540d1682c655d86aacd6485gxrqa&type=client). The United States believed they were falling behind as the US Mercury capsules still had little control when they were in the orbit. NASA still denied Funk’s reapplication because she did not hold an engineering degree. This could imply either stronger criteria for the program or possible gender discrimination. In 1963, the Soviet Union again proved they were ahead of the United States as they sent Valentina Tereshkova into space [Bridger, 2004](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1057/9780230523432_12). It would take the United States another twenty years to send their first woman, Sally Ride [NASA Content Administrator, 2019](https://www.nasa.gov/multimedia/imagegallery/image_feature_2533.html).

When analyzing oral history, it is important to understand the relationship between the interviewer and the interviewee. Here we see the two held a strong friendship bond. The interviewee felt comfortable laughing and sharing her experience. In fact, it felt like a simple conversation between the two. Hollenbeck praised Funk. They shared the memory of the two of them flying together after Hollenbeck’s divorce. They amused over describing their telephone calls to each other as their '10 o’clock flight’ <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(184)"> seek to 3:04</a>. The audio file shared an episode of female friendship and empowerment.

This Friday, March 29th, 2019, history was going to be made with the first ever all-female spacewalk by NASA. Regrettably, it was canceled due to the lack of suitable spacesuits available [Weitering, 2019](https://www.space.com/no-all-female-spacewalk-nasa-says.html). Over fifty years later, there appears to be yet another unfortunate misstep in the history of female astronauts. This audio file remains relevant with Wally Funk showing the importance of perseverance and loyal female friendship, to inspire women to never give up on their dreams and continue making history.







