The audio recording on this page provides a small example of the type of interviews this project aims to conduct <a href="javascript:setTime(30)">begin to listen </a>. For the sake of privacy, the identity of this individual will not be revealed. From here on he will be referred to as Mr. X. Mr. X was born in 1955, in a small western Ukrainian city of Kamianets-Podilskyi where he spent most of his life, besides his university years in Odessa, until his emigration to Canada in 1988. The interview begins with a story from Mr. X’s childhood when he was around six years old. Being born only two years after Joseph Stalin’s death in 1953, he was able to avoid some of the most repressive years of communism. As a young child, he was already exposed to the relevance of information and media. He understood that Voice of America was of some importance to his Father as he asked worriedly what his father would do without this radio he was trying to sell <a href="javascript:setTime(45)">seek 0:45 </a>. Unfortunately, he did not understand the risk of holding access to such information could have. He also did not recognize the possibility of civilian-surveillance that was occurring at the time. There existed a fear, which is shown through Mr. X’s father's reaction, that civilians would report on each other for holding anti-Soviet beliefs and intents, such as listening to Voice of America or Radio Free Europe.

<a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(51)"> seek to 0:51</a>
 <a href="javascript:setTime(30)">let's make a link </a>
 [this wil ltake you to one minute and 6 seconds in](javascript:setTime(66%29)
 

The second part of the recording discussed a later period in possibly the late 1970s, during the years of stagnation under Leonid Brezhnev. By this time Mr. X already had family members who were able to emigrate to the West, as well as, close friends working in the KGB, the main security agency for the Soviet Union. The incident Mr. X describes is almost comical. He mockingly tells KGB friend if you are going to be reading our letters at least make sure you seal them properly again, so we don’t notice <a href="#" onclick="javascript:seek(127)"> seek to 2:07</a>. His friend simply replies ‘Honestly, Mr. X, we don’t have the time.’ The KGB agent does not even attempt to deny the state is breaching citizens privacy. It has just become second nature to life in the Soviet Union. One thing that can be gathered through this account is the dark humour that has come out from the years of oppression. As is often the case, people living in the Soviet Union dealt with the suppression through anecdotes, which often reflected the everyday life and concerns of the people under the system [Adams, 2005](https://www.taylorfrancis.com/books/9781134264858). For example, an anecdote later told by Mr. X off record:

>Moisha calls Haim over the phone:
>
>Moisha: Haim, what are you doing?
>
>Haim: Just eating dinner.
>
>Moisha: Oh, what are you having?
>
>Haim: Misha, this is not a telephone conversation.

This little episode draws incredible parallels with the true accounts of Mr. X. The Soviet Union experienced many rations in the food market, where certain products would never be sold. This led to the creation of a black market where some goods, such as Hungarian sausage or caviar, could sometimes be found. Haim could not tell Moisha what he was eating because telephone conversations were often bugged by the state so he could not tell him he was eating something outside of the rationed goods or he would be considered a dissident or working against the party. Looking back at these events in hindsight people in the Soviet Union were able to create jokes from the memories of the ridiculously vigorous system they lived under [Adams, 2005]( https://www.taylorfrancis.com/books/9781134264858).

## Methods 

The main tool for this historic project is to collect interviews from ordinary people who have been ‘hidden from history,’ who are not classed as social or political elites [Perks & Thomas, 1998]( http://eclass.uth.gr/eclass/modules/document/file.php/SEAD240/arthra/Perks%20Thomson%20The_Oral_History_Reader.pdf). Oral history accounts have contributed significantly to historiography in the late-half of the twentieth century. They have allowed experiences and interpretations of marginalised groups or people whose voices would otherwise not have been heard in previous historic works. They shed light on the daily lives of ordinary people. However, there remain debates about oral accounts reliability since they linger on memory and personal interpretation. Nevertheless, they are contributions which allow historians to also see the emotional aspects of daily life besides the official government documentation and sources.

The intent is to disseminate the results freely on the web to present it as a contrast against the restrictive information distribution under these regimes. The team hopes to create an online museum characterised using visuals such as photographs and videos, as well as, audio recordings of individuals discussing their struggles in personal and informational freedom. The hope is to create an interactive platform to bring people together to fight against suppression of information, while still valuing some interviewees’ privacy.

##Timeline

The project is approximated to take 3 to 5 years before completion. This section will address the necessary step-by-step actions planned to be taken:
 
1.	*Team Building:* Due to the large scale and diversity of a project a larger team of historians and collaborators would need to be hired. They would require an interest in oral history, as well as, a strong understanding of the oppressive regimes studied. Strong knowledge of language skills would be an asset, such as Russian, Ukrainian, Hungarian, Polish, Mandarin and others. To help with research and some interview write ups research assistance may also be hired. This process is expected to 3 to 4 months. 
2.	*Finding Interviewees:* The team of historians is expected to be self-motivated and driven in their interests and study area to be able to find interviewees either through family members, acquittances or travels. Preferably they would join the team with existing subjects for the interview, otherwise, they are expected to reach out to individuals through email or other sources to arrange interview meetings and write-up interview questions. In some cases, this would mean providing monetary compensations for interviewees as well. This is expected to take again up to 3 to 4 months.
3.	*Once interviewees are set:* This would be the time to plan out dates and, in cases where necessary, travels and accommodation for the interviews. It would also require hiring a team of videographers who would be responsible to film and record the interviewees who are willing to not remain private. This stage could begin in the middle of the 2nd stage, a number of interviewees are found and again should take up around 3 months. The more interviewees that are found before this stage would reduce inefficiency by planning trips to close proximity locations in one go. Also, it would promote not over hiring a number of videographers, therefore minimizing cost. It is hoped to only hire 2 videographers so only two interviews can be conducted at the same time, besides those that are only audio recordings. 
4.	*Conduct interviews:* This would be the essential part of the project. Interviewer historians would go out and meet their subjects and conduct the interviews with them. The interviews with the historical write ups on each could take from up to 6 to 8 months. 
5.	*Hiring web-developers:* Once a sample of two or three interviews are created it would be necessary to begin hiring web-developers: a front-end developer and back-end developer. The existing team has some website building skills, but it would require someone with a higher skill set to work on creating a cohesive page. This project also aims to be accessible for a diverse group of individuals, therefore, the developers would need to be extremely thoughtful and skilled in making it user-friendly also for those who are visually impaired or navigate only using their keyboard. This may be through an organized use of semantic elements or other methods. The hiring process should take about 2 months.
6.	*After the interviews:* The team would gather together to present their work. The videographers would work to edit and montage the videos. The historians would touch upon their write-ups to present a cohesive argument and tone. The web developer would continue designing the web-page in the due time. This should take up to around 5 months.
7.	*Trial period:* Before the project is fully sent for launch it would run through a trial period of peer review from other historians and private audience. The website layout would be tested on its efficiency in its function and contribution to the historic work. This could take up to about 1 month until final launch.

Overall, the project is estimated to take around two years before the final launch. However, this may differ depending on the initial two stages and how many team members already have interviewees in mind ready to participate in the project.

For the balance sheet [click here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1mJrxpEiSfXr8Ab2NgAKsVQkgR_odLAPzRPVhgU13YGw/edit?usp=sharing). 

## Importance 

This project would add to a large number of existing historiographical discourses. It would contribute to the history of totalitarian regimes: their control of the media and their security agencies. For example, in the interview on this page, we get a sense of the work performed by the KGB. We learn that one of their tasks was to read letters sent by civilians. We also learn that some KGB officers were more lax, remaining friends with individuals who held ‘anti-party’ views with families who ‘betrayed’ the communist system to emigrate to the West. This particular KGB agent did not even deem it necessary to deny or cover his daily tasks of breaching individual privacy. This particular interview could add to the existing historical work of [Harrison, 2005](https://books.google.ca/books?id=3tlZCwAAQBAJ&printsec=frontcover&dq=soviet+police+state&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiG6bPdvMbhAhXvhOAKHSchCsYQ6AEIKDAA#v=onepage&q=soviet%20police%20state&f=false) and oral history work by [Raleigh, 2011]( https://books.google.ca/books?hl=en&lr=&id=y98SDAAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PP1&dq=soviet+union+oral+history&ots=op1wcaYhB1&sig=wK6Z3Znvl4_3KimxecExss8uZp4#v=onepage&q=soviet%20union%20oral%20history&f=false). Other interviews would add to the existing literature of other totalitarian regimes, such as, the People’s Republic of China, with oral accounts currently focusing mainly feminist accounts of Chinese women [Wang, 1991](https://books.google.ca/books?hl=en&lr=&id=unObToGSvUwC&oi=fnd&pg=PR11&dq=oral+accounts+from+communist+china&ots=8kWX8cYoNg&sig=3jCYQY0YDfiqDpVIYcTtgT96xcs#v=onepage&q=oral%20accounts%20from%20communist%20china&f=false). It would also add to the growing number historiography of security such as [Rothschild, 1995](http://www.jstor.org/stable/20027310) and [Jong, 2014](https://www.routledgehandbooks.com/doi/10.4324/9781315882284.ch22). The projects intend to show how some regimes increase security at the cost of civilian privacy and freedom, which in turn is detrimental to their overall well-being.

History has seen many regimes which have undermined personal privacy and limited the diversity of informational sources by censoring literature and bugging out certain radio frequencies. This project intends to reconstruct the histories of the ordinary people living under these oppressive regimes to show how it hindered their personal security and growth. This discussion remains extremely relevant today as ever with the growing digitalization in the world. Information and data gathering on individuals has become easier than ever before. This project aims to urge the governments to restrain from invading citizens’ privacy, as well as, to maintain the democratic separations from the media. The growing abundance of information on the World Wide Web has made information more accessible to individuals now, even if not all of it is liable. Therefore, presenting this project on its own website museum would allow it to be accessible for diverse groups of individuals i.e. those not residing in North America or those with physical impairment or disability. Overall, the project aims to draw a contrast between the freedom of information and the historically oppressive regimes’ breaches of privacy.
